Name: Matheus Galvão
Profession: Software Developer
Email: matheusgalvao@protonmail.com        
Phone: (+351) 936 575 865        
Country of Residence: Portugal
Github: matheusgalvao1


BRIEF PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL BIOGRAPHY:
Based in Portugal, I’m finalizing my Master's in Computer Science with a focus on Artificial Intelligence, having initially specialized in mobile development. My expertise spans from creating applications for Android and iOS using Flutter to diving deep into AI and Machine Learning (ML). Currently, my research concentrates on implementing Deep Learning in financial markets, the subject of my thesis.
Driven by a passion for Data Science and ML, I aim to leverage AI to craft innovative technological solutions. My background in both frontend and backend development ensures a comprehensive understanding of technology development, complemented by a leadership-driven mindset and diverse soft skills.
Fluent in English and Portuguese, I also speak Spanish and Italian at a professional level, with basic skills in French. This range of languages helps me connect easily with diverse teams, making me ready and excited to bring my AI and technology skills to any project around the globe.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE:

Company: Websix 
Period: 01/2021 – 07/2021
Role: Mobile Developer (Flutter)
Description: Development of on demand mobile applications for many industries and fields, using the Flutter Framework from Google, the apps were developed and integrated to local and online databases, SǪL and NoSǪL as Firebase Firestore, as well to APIs internal and external from the company. My main responsibilities were to design the applications user experience, Figma prototypes, develop the front-end and integrate with Firebase and APIs.


Company: Polytechnical Institute of Bragança
Period: 04/2023 – present 
Role: AI Researcher
Description: My role as a leading researcher in a project focused on predicting regional water consumption was to create solutions, manage data and develop models based on Deep Learning to predict future water consumption in given regions. Furthermore, such work required constant documentation of development, as well as academic writing.

EDUCATION

Course: Bachelor in Computer Science 
Duration: 03/2019 – 07/2023
University: Federal Technological University of Paraná (Brazil)
Description: After four years of course, with the highest marks of my class (0.92 / 1), I got accepted to a double degree program in Portugal, being enrolled to a Master Degree in Informatics at the Polytechnic Institute of Bragança, to finish both courses at the same time and receiving two degrees. During my bachelor I was a mentor of Calculus to new students, experience which helped me to improve my knowledge of mathematics.


Course: Master's in Informatics
University: Polytechnic Institute of Bragança (Portugal)
Description: My master's thesis is in the field of Artificial Intelligence, developing a Deep Learning model to forecast yields of the US Treasury Bond market.


LANGUAGES PROFICIENCY


Language: English
Understanding: C2 
Speaking: C2 
Writing: C2


Language: French 
Understanding: B2 
Speaking: B1 
Writing: B1


Language: Portuguese
Understanding: Native
Speaking: Native
Writing: Native


Language: Italian 
Understanding: C1 
Speaking: B1 
Writing: B1


Language: Spanish 
Understanding: B2 
Speaking: B1 
Writing: B1




CERTIFICATES


TOEFL English C2, available at: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1UO7Kze-de-FCXrXySFd59N1txqtg5pVk/view?pli=1




COURSES


Course: Flutter Course
Year: 2020
Source: balta.io


Course: French Intermediate course B1-B2
Year: 2020
Source: École Polytechnique (Coursera)


Course: Machine Learning Course by Andrew Ng
Year: 2020
Source: Stanford (Coursera)


Course: Neural Networks and Deep Learning
Year: 2021
Source: DeepLearning.ai


Course: Improving Deep Neural Networks: Hyperparameter Tuning, Regularization and Optimization
Year: 2021
Source: DeepLearning.ai




PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES:


Python 
Dart 
Octave 
PHP 
CSS
JavaScript
C
Java 
SǪL 
HTML


FRAMEWORKS:

Flutter 
PyTorch
TensorFlow
Langchain
FastAPI
NextJS


OPERATIONAL SYSTEMS EXPERIENCE:
Linux 
MacOS
Windows
Android
iOS


TOOLS AND TECHNOLOGIES:
Figma
Firebase
AWS
Google Cloud
Anaconda
Insomnia 
LaTeX
Visual Studio Code 
Git
Github
Gitlab
Jupyter Notebook 
Docker
Postman 
Octave


DATABASES:
MongoDB
Firebase Firestore
PostgreSQL
SQLite
MySQL


AI Projects:

Name: LLM Chatbot to answer question about my CV
Year: 2023
Description: 
This project delivers an AI chatbot based on gpt-3.5 created to answer questions about my professional experience and skills, it was prompt engineered using Langchain, integrated to a FastAPI, which can be accessed through a web interface developed in React.
Api repository: https://github.com/matheusgalvao1/portofolio-api
Front-end repository: https://github.com/matheusgalvao1/portofolio-web

Name: Bond Yields Forecasting using LSTMs
Year: 2023
Description: 
Developed as my Master Thesis on the application of Neural Networks to financial
markets, this project encompasses a whole data science project, from data collecting and processing, development of multiple LSTM networks, hyperparameter tuning, and evaluation of results.
Available at: https://gitlab.estig.ipb.pt/mi_matheus/nn-forecast
Thesis: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1B5epId2lhQLVH46xrL-QEka5swJpf1od/view? usp=sharing

Name: Question Answering Machine
Year: 2022
Description: 
As an academic project for my Masters, I developed a Question Answering Machine
by loading pre-trained language models from HuggingFace, the goal of the project was to achieve the best performance possible on the SQuAD 2.0 dataset. The project was a success, achieving a performance of over 93%, the best in class. 
Available at: https://github.com/matheusgalvao1/si-project

MOBILE Projects:

Name: Loan Simulator Mobile App 
Year: 2021
Description:
In this application, people can simulate loans based on their preferences, personal information and banking conditions, as well to contact an employee to continue the loan service.
Play Store Version: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.bem_te_vi&pli=1
New Unpublished Version: https://github.com/matheusgalvao1/btvcred


Name: Password Manager Mobile App
Year: 2021
Description: This application has been developed in an academic environment for graduation purposes, it is an app for managing personal accounts and passwords where you can chose to store locally in your device or in the cloud.
Github Repository: https://github.com/matheusgalvao1/app-totalpass


Name: Online Shopping Mobile App
Year: 2021
Description: The third project is a mobile application for online orders to a local company, using digital catalogs. The app is also integrated to a third party web application where the company can manage the orders.
Play Store: https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=br.com.gtop.app
